FORMATTING
Formatting

    Cherrytree has a fair amount of Rich Text formatting options, not only to allow you to make your notes more visually appealing, but to also make them easier to understand or draw attention to certain elements. While not a word-processor, Cherrytree does understand many of the Rich Text compliant standard settings, so text you copy and paste from a word-processor document will retain much of it's formatting. Attributes like bold, italic and underlined text should retain those values. Tab stops and spacing will convert to their Cherrytree equivalents and look pretty much the same. Even text coloring and background colors should import with no problems. However, things like character and paragraph styles, hyphenation and other more advanced formatting will lose most of the settings.
    When applying formatting, if you only want to apply it to one word, the word does not need to be highlighted (selected). Simply place the cursor anywhere in the word and the whole word will be formatted. If you wish to format more than one word, you must select the words.

    Format Latest <F7>: This will re-apply the last used formatting to the selected text or the word containing the cursor.
    
    Remove Formatting <SHIFT>+<CTRL>+R: This will remove any special formatting of the selected text or the word containing the cursor.
    
    Text Color Foreground: This opens up a dialog where you can select a font color for the selected text or the word containing the cursor. 
    
    Text Color Background: This opens up a dialog where you can select the color for the selected text background. The color only applies to the selected text or word containing the cursor, it does not affect the page.
    
    Toggle Bold Property <CTRL>+B: This makes the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph bold.
    
    Toggle Italic Property <CTRL>+I: This makes the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph italic.
    
    Toggle Underline Property <CTRL>+U: This makes the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph underlined.
    
    Toggle Strikethrough Property <CTRL>+E: This puts a line through the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph.
    
    Toggle h1 Property <CTRL>+1: This gives the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph the HTML "h1" property. See "Toggle h1 Property" in Toolbar for more.
    
     Toggle h2 Property <CTRL>+2: This gives the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph the HTML "h2" property. See "Toggle h2 Property" in Toolbar for more.
     
     Toggle h3 Property <CTRL>+3: This gives the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph the HTML "h2" property. See "Toggle h3 Property" in Toolbar for more.
     
     Toggle Small Property <CTRL>+0: This gives the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph the HTML "small" property. See "Toggle Small Property" in Toolbar for more.
     
     Toggle Superscript Property: This gives the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph the superscript property. See "Toggle Superscript Property" in Toolbar for more.
     
     Toggle Subscript Property: This gives the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph the subscript property. See "Toggle Subscript Property" in Toolbar for more.
     
     Toggle Monospace Property: This gives the selected character, word, sentence or paragraph the monospace property. See "Toggle Monospace Property" in Toolbar for more.
     
     The next 3 options (Bulleted, Numbered & To-Do lists) have special characteristics, and deal with creating lists or "outlines". For one thing, you can have multi-level lists: pressing Tab and Shift+Tab you can increase/decrease the level of the list. Numbered list can use several different styles, "1.", "1)", "1-", "1>"; and multiple levels can cycle between them. Valid Bulleted lists can use “•”, “◇”, “▪”, “-“, “→”, “⇒”; and as with the numbered lists, multiple levels can cycle between them. NOTE: If at the beginning of a line you type “<> ”, this will turn into “◇ “; if you type “:: ” it will turn into “▪ “; if you type “-> ” it will turn into “→ “; if you type “=> ” it will turn into “⇒ “
    
    Set/Unset Bullet List: At the beginning of a new paragraph this will set it to be a bulleted list. In existing paragraphs it will change them to a bulleted list. In an existing bulleted list it will covert them to plain paragraphs.
    
    Set/Unset Numbered List: At the beginning of a new paragraph this will set it to be a sequentially numbered list. In existing paragraphs it will change them to a sequentially numbered list. In an existing numbered list it will covert them to plain paragraphs. Also useful if you want to renumber an existing numbered list, to allow for additions and deletions. Toggle the property off then on again, and the paragraphs will be renumbered.
    
    Set/Unset To-Do List: At the beginning of a new paragraph this will set it to be a to-do list with a check box at the start of each new paragraph. In existing paragraphs it will change them to a to-do list. In a to-do list it will covert them to plain paragraphs.
 
    Justify Left: Aligns the cursor containing paragraph to the left of the page.
    
    Justify Center: Aligns the cursor containing paragraph to the center of the page. This formatting follows the size of the Cherrytree window, so the text it's applied to will always center in the window, regardless of it's size.
    
    Justify Right: Aligns the cursor containing paragraph to the right of the page.
    
 <-Previous /Home/ Next ->

