IMPORTING AND EXPORTING

Importing and Exporting

    Importing
    
    Cherrytree can import pages and notes into nodes from a variety of other sources, including KeepNote, NoteCase, Tomboy, HTML files, plain text and others. Select "Import" from the menu and you will be presented with your operating system / desktop file chooser dialog:
    
    
    
    NOTE: Some programs use several files to keep their data in, while others are like Cherrytree and use a single file. If the program you're importing from uses several files in a specific folder, select the folder and not just one file in it.
    Select the file or folder you wish to import from. Depending on the original program, you will probably have another option dialog open asking you where to put the imported data:
    
    
    
    Choose the option that best describes how you want the data entered into your Cherrytree document. Generally, if the program you're importing from has the data you want in "pages", and you want to separate that into an equal number of Cherrytree nodes, you would choose the "Tree Root" option. Each page from the other program will become a node with the same title (if one existed). If there's not too much data, the program does not support separate pages, or you just want it all in one node, choose "The Selected Node". If there were separate pages, the page titles will become headings above the content in the current node.
    
    Exporting
    
     Nodes : The first three selections,  Print/Export to PDF,  Export to Multiple Plain Text Files and  Export to Single Plain Text File will open a sub-menu with four options: 




    The dialog asks you whether you want to export just the currently selected text, current node, the current node and any sub-nodes under it, or the entire document. When exporting to Print/PDF, depending on your operating system, you should also find in the print dialog an option to "Save file to Disk" or similar term, where you can create a PDF or Postscript file instead of printing. Check your operating system documentation for how to do this if you're not sure.
     
   The fourth selection,  Export to HTML, will open a slightly different dialog:
   
   
   
    One difference is the lack of whether or not you want to include the node names. Cherrytree will automatically use the node names for links to different parts of the HTML file(s). The other is whether you wish to have a page-tree listing on every HTML page, or just a link back to an index. The default is to create a tree on each page. Clear the checkmark "Links Tree in Every Page" to have just a link to the index on each page. 
    Once you select what you want to export, Cherrytree will open an operating system / desktop file dialog where you can specify a folder or create a new one for the contents. It does not ask for a filename, Cherrytree will use the existing filename so that all the links work properly. 
    The resultant web page will look something like this:
    
    
    
     This is actually this page you're reading converted to HTML. Your page will of course look different, but it will have all the graphics, links and other items in it, and is a great way to share your documents with others who don't have Cherrytree. 
    
Important Note: Unless you plan to export a node with no links, links to external web pages, or just links to other parts of the same node, it's best to plan your set-up before creating nodes to export to HTML. If there will be links to other nodes, it's advisable to create all the linked nodes as children of the parent or main node, then export the main node with all it's children. If you plan on often exporting your Cherrytree documents to HTML, better yet is to create separate Cherrytree documents with all the internal links in the same document, then export the whole document. This will ensure all the internal links are preserved. In any scenario, web links are external and will work as expected. With links to files and folders, Cherrytree will not copy the files / folders to the new HTML folder so those links will also work. Unless you do web hosting where the path to the files / folders will remain constant, you should create your HTML containing folder first, copy all the files you plan on linking to it, and then link to those files in your Cherrytree document.
    
    The last option,  Export to Cherrytree Document, opens the same dialog as the HTML one. Once you select what you want to export, Cherrytree will open an operating system / desktop file dialog where you can specify a folder and/or create a new one for the document, plus specify a new name and file type (XML or SQLite) for it.  
     
    
    
    <-Previous /Home/ Next ->

