LINKS
Links Preferences



    One of the most useful functions in Cherrytree is it's ability to create links from text the user writes or from ones copied and pasted into a node. Cherrytree supports five different kinds of links, two internal and three external. In these options you can set the default behavior of the external links. The internal ones are covered in Inserting Objects. Here we go through the options for external links.
    
    Enable Custom Web Link Clicked Action: Here you can change the default on what program is launched when you click on a web link in a Cherrytree document. The default is to launch your desktop default browser, the one your operating system / desktop would launch whenever you click on a link in a document. However you may prefer to use another browser with Cherrytree. If that's true, then you would click on the option check box and write the command name of the browser you want, replacing the default. 
NOTE: You must use the command name, not the generic or menu name for the browser! In other words, if you wanted to use Google's Chrome browser, you would not type "Chrome" here, as that's not the executable name. The executable name for it would be "google-chrome". And depending on how your system environment is set up, you may also need to include the path to the executable file, like "/usr/bin/google-chrome". You will also want to leave or re-write the "%s" on the end of the command line, as that is a "placeholder", a variable that passes the link text to the browser, so it knows what web page to open.
    
    Enable Custom File Link Clicked Action: Here you can change the default on what program is launched when you click on a file link in a Cherrytree document. The default is to use whatever program your file manager uses when you click on a file in it. An example would be if you clicked on a .tiff file in your file manager, and it opens that file in GIMP or Photoshop, then that's what would happen if you clicked on a .tiff link in Cherrytree. However, you may only want to see where the file is, not actually open it. In this case you would click the check box for the option and change the default to the executable name of you file manager, without the "%s", and it will open your file manager to the folder where the file resides. Another example is you may only be linking image files in your Cherrytree document, and want to use another application to view and/or edit them than the system default, so you would click the check box and enter the program's executable name with the "%s" variable to open files with only that program. Generally though, this is best left at the default.
    
     Enable Custom Folder Link Clicked Action: Here you can change the default on what file manager is used when you click on a folder link in a Cherrytree document. The default is whatever file manager your operating system / desktop uses, but you may have a reason to want to use another with Cherrytree. An example would be if you're using KDE as your default desktop, and it uses Dolphin as it's default file manager, but you want your Cherrytree folder links to open in Konqueror. You would click the check box and enter "konqueror %s" as the new default. Normally, this option is best left at the default.
     
     Colors: These options allow you to change the default colors used for the various links in Cherrytree. Some desktop themes render the default colors hard to see, so you can change them here to something more visable. Or, just change them to something you like better. 
     
     Use Relative Paths for Files and Folders: There are two types of file and folder paths in a filesystem, 'absolute' paths and 'relative' paths. In an 'absolute' path a file is referenced from the root directory of a drive. An example would be something like a text file in my Documents folder called "foo.txt". In an 'absolute' path it would be '/home/rob/Documents/foo.txt'. If I link that file in a Cherrytree document, then give that document to someone else, the same path will most likely not exist on their computer (unless their user name happens to be 'rob' too!). Cherrytree will not be able to find the file. The same is true of folders, an 'absolute' path always starts from the root directory.
     'Relative' paths use the location of the Cherrytree document itself as the "root" folder, using that as the basis to locate the linked file. So, if I have my Cherrytree document and "foo.txt" both in my Documents folder, then send both files to a friend and they place them in their Documents folder, Cherrytree will have no trouble finding the linked file.
     If you never share your Cherrytree documents, enabling this option will not really make any difference. If you do share them, turning this on will make sharing much more painless. As a rule of thumb, when sharing Cherrytree documents it's advisable to always use relative paths, and to store any files and folders you are going to link in the same folder as the Cherrytree document. 
     
     Anchor Size: This sets the point size for the Anchor, used when creating certain links (see Anchors). By default it's set at 16 points, but you may want something larger or smaller depending on your tastes and what you're doing. 
     
     <-Previous /Home/ Next ->

