TREE

Tree

    Add Node <CTRL>+N: This adds a new node at the same level as the one above it. It will open the following dialog:
    
    
    
    See "Getting Started" if you're unfamiliar with the options in the dialog.
    
    Add Subnode <SHIFT>+<CTRL>+N: This adds a sub or "child" node to the one currently selected.
    
    Duplicate Node <SHIFT>+<CTRL>+D: Duplicates the currently selected node.
    
    Change Node Properties <F2>: This opens the dialog above to allow you to rename the node, add, delete or change the default syntax highlighting, give the node a tag for searching, or to set the node to "read only".
    
    Toggle Read Only <CTRL>+<ALT>+R: Turn on and off the "read only" status of the node. When in "read only" status, the node can't be edited.
    
    Bookmark This Node: This will add the current node to the bookmarks, accessable through the "Bookmarks" menu. If the node is already bookmarked, the menu option will change to "Remove from Bookmarks". You can also add a node to the bookmarks with the keyboard shortcut 'CTRL+SHIFT+B' and remove it with 'CTRL+ALT+B'. A "pin" will appear next to node names that are bookmarked if the option in enabled in the Tree preferences.
    
    Insert Today's Node <F8>: This option will create a new node with a node name reflecting the current date. The node will be a child of a year node, followed by a month node. If these nodes don't already exist, Cherrytree will create them as well. Mainly used if you're keeping a journal in Cherrytree, or using it for date-specific entries. The nodes will appear like this:
    
    
    
    Tree Info: This opens a dialog giving some useful information about the current Cherrytree document.
    
    Node Move: This will open a sub-menu where you can move the current node within the node tree. Options are either up, down, left, or Change Father. This last one, "Change Father", allows you to change which node the current node is a child of. NOTE: You can also drag-and-drop nodes in the node pane to move them around. 
    
    Nodes Sort: This item opens a sub-menu where you have the choice to sort the entire tree, or just the "siblings" of the current node in either ascending or descending order.
    
    Find A Node <CTRL>+T: This searches the node names and tags for the text you enter, returning the matches.
    
    Replace in Node Names <SHIFT>+<CTRL>+T: This opens the Find dialog to allow you to search for and replace text in node names. It does not work on tags. See "Replacing Text" for more on this dialog.
    
    Nodes Import: This will open a sub-menu that lists all the file formats that Cherrytree can import from. If you want to import from a previous note-keeping application, say Keepnote, pay particular attention to the fact that the import option points you to the Keepnote folder, not a file. To properly import from some of the other programs Cherrytree needs to pull information from several files in the other program's data folder. Just select the folder from the import dialog and Cherrytree will do the rest. Separate "notes" or pages will become separate nodes in Cherrytree.
    Among Cherrytree's import options is also the ability to import text from a single text file, or from a whole folder full of text files. This is particularly useful for those who normally kept notes and such in plain text files, using an editor as a note application.
    Once you choose what you want to import from, Cherrytree may show a dialog asking which node in the current document you want to add the imported information to:


    You can choose to have the new information added to the root of your node tree, or added as nodes to the one you're currently in. 
    
    Nodes Export: The first option, Print/Export to PDF, will open the dialog seen below:
    
    
    
    Here you set exactly what you want to export to the PDF document. When exporting more than one node, as in Selected Node and Subnodes or All the Tree, by default Cherrytree will place the node name and text from each node below the node before it, not setting any page breaks. This produces a continuous document similar to many web pages. If you'd prefer each node start on it's own page, enable the New Node in New Page option. 
    When exporting to Print/PDF, depending on your operating system, if it doesn't support direct PDF creation, you should also find in the print dialog an option to "Save file to Disk" or a similar term, where you can create a PDF or Postscript file instead of printing. Check your operating system documentation for how to do this if you're not sure.
    
    
    
    
      Export to Multiple Plain Text Files and  Export to Single Plain Text File will open a sub-menu with four options: 




    The dialog asks you whether you want to  just the currently selected text, current node, the current node and any sub-nodes under it, or the entire document. 
     
   The fourth selection,  Export to HTML, will open a slightly different dialog:
   
   
   
    Cherrytree will automatically use the node names for links to different parts of the HTML file(s). The main difference is the Links Tree in Every Page option. By default Cherrytree will show a navigation tree on the left side or the generated HTML pages, using the node names as links. Every generated page will have this tree, making it easy to jump to different pages. Some users may prefer a single "index" instead, on just one page, with a link at the bottom of the other pages to return to it. By clearing the checkbox Cherrytree will create this index and links.
    Once you select what you want to export, it will open an operating system / desktop file dialog where you can specify a folder or create a new one for the contents. It does not ask for a filename, Cherrytree will use the existing filename so that all the links work properly. 
Important Note: Unless you plan to export a node with no links, links to external web pages, or just links to other parts of the same node, it's best to plan your set-up before creating nodes to export to HTML. If there will be links to other nodes, it's advisable to create all the linked nodes as children of the parent or main node, then export the main node with all it's children. If you plan on often exporting your Cherrytree documents to HTML, better yet is to create separate Cherrytree documents with all the internal links in the same document, then export the whole document. This will ensure all the internal links are preserved. In any scenario, web links are external and will work as expected. With links to files and folders, Cherrytree will not copy the files / folders to the new HTML folder so those links will also work. Unless you do web hosting where the path to the files / folders will remain constant, you should create your HTML containing folder first, copy all the files you plan on linking to it, and then link to those files in your Cherrytree document.
    
    The last option,  Export to Cherrytree Document, opens the same dialog as the HTML one. Once you select what you want to export, it will open an operating system / desktop file dialog where you can specify a folder and/or create a new one for the document, plus specify a new name and file type (XML or SQLite) for it.
    
    Inherit Syntax: This is used mostly with programming code. It changes all the children node's (and their children) of the current node to the current node's syntax highlighting style. See "Automatic Syntax Highlighting" for more on this.
    
    Delete Node <DELETE>: This will delete the current node from the Cherrytree document. Cherrytree will ask you if you're sure you want to do this before you do.
    
    Go Forward <ALT>+<LEFT-ARROW> and Go Backward <ALT>+<RIGHT-ARROW>: These two work the same as in a web browser, taking you back and forth to previously viewed nodes in the order you viewed them.
    
    <-Previous /Home/ Next ->

