MISCELLANEOUS

Miscellaneous Preferences



System Tray

    Enable System Tray Docking: If this option is enabled, when you close Cherrytree it will place an icon in your system tray. Most people will want this option enabled, as it causes Cherrytree to close to the system tray instead of quitting, keeping it always handy and a single mouse click away. If you have multiple documents open, clicking on the tray icon will open all the documents. On Linux systems this also allows you to pop-up Cherrytree on whatever workspace you happen to be currently on, instead of being forced to go back to the workspace it was started in. Future versions will likely have the ability to drag and drop files, links, text and other objects to the system tray icon and have them instantly added to the current document, but this is currently not supported.
    
     Start Minimized in the System Tray: This option will cause Cherrytree to start as a system tray icon only, initially not showing the full Cherrytree window. You may want to enable this option if you set Cherrytree as a default start-up application in your desktop settings, so it's always handy but does not start up in a window. See your desktop or operating system documentation to learn how to set Cherrytree as a start-up application when you log in.
     
     Use AppIndicator for Docking: This option is very similar to minimizing a window to it's icon, but with a twist. If you don't have a launcher icon in your panel most modern desktops will show one in the panel when you launch a program from the menu, as long as you have the program open. With this option enabled, if you press the 'close' button, instead of exiting Cherrytree it will simply minimize to the panel icon, making it easier to jump right back to it later. Or, if you have a panel launcher icon normally for Cherrytree, this option will do the same thing as the minimize button when you hit the close button.
     
     Limit of Undoable Steps Per Node: This sets how many undo's each node and sub-node has. This means in whole words or objects inserted on the node page, not per text characters. A large numbers of undo steps will cause Cherrytree to use more memory, so unless you find yourself constantly undoing what you have typed, inserted or copied, a smaller number will easily suffice. The default is 20 steps, and most users can comfortably leave it at this. It is important to note though that Cherrytree only allocates undo memory to nodes that are changed and added to, meaning nodes that exist in the document but haven't been changed will not have undo memory needs, and none will be allocated to them. In addition, Cherrytree uses other methods to make it as memory-efficient as it is, so if you find yourself needing more undo ability, don't be afraid to increase the number of steps to match your needs.
     
 Saving

    Autosave every ______ minutes: This option will cause Cherrytree to automatically save the current document in the interval specified in the box.  This is very useful if you use Cherrytree often for typing or copy and pasting notes and other information into it, as it saves the current document without the user having to remember to do it each time. Most users will put some kind of default setting in here like 5 or 10 minutes. If you do a lot of writing or copy and pasting in Cherrytree, a short time duration is better. If you only use it occasionally, then something slightly longer would suffice. 
NOTE: If you use a cloud storage service like Dropbox or Spideroak, and keep your Cherrytree documents in one of your cloud folders, you will want to make this setting at least 5 minutes, so you are not constantly re-syncing with the service. Also, if you have the automatic backups option enabled too, there will be two files synced each time, so be aware of that.
    
    Autosave on Quit: This option tells Cherrytree to save the file when you quit the program, saving it from asking you whether or not to save a file you made changes to when you go to close it. If you have the 'Enable System Tray Docking' option set, where clicking the Close icon near the Minimize and Maximize icons in the window header cause Cherrytree to close to the system tray, Cherrytree will not autosave at that point, because it is actually still open. The same is true if you choose the "Quit" option from the File menu or use the CTRL+Q hotkeys with system tray docking enabled. It's another reason the Autosave options should be enabled and set at a reasonable interval, Cherrytree will autosave when docked to the system tray, in case you forget to save the file manually.
    
    Create a Backup Copy Before Saving: This option tells Cherrytree to create a backup of the current Cherrytree document. This option is useful for those who later make changes in several nodes, or just type and/or copy and paste a lot of information into Cherrytree, then decide they do not want to keep it. Instead of having to go back and delete all they just did, they can simply close the file, and when Cherrytree asks if they want to save it, choose "Discard". The user then has to simply load the backup, which will be the previous version of the document, with the same file name and a "~" character at the end. All the unwanted text will be gone. NOTE: Cherrytree also creates backups when it autosaves, so if there was an autosave while entering the new text, whatever was there at the time will also be in the backup. Also, if Autosave on Quit is enabled, closing the document with changes will not prompt the user if they want to save or discard the changes, the changes will be saved to the backup. If you often find yourself making a lot of mistakes or entering a lot of information you later do not want, it's best to enable backups and disable the automatic saving options.    
    
    Number of Backups to Keep: Here you can set how many backup versions Cherrytree will make of a document. Backups have the same name as the current document, with a tilde "~" character added to the end. The number of tildes shows the version number, the one with the most being the most recent. In other words, if you have Create a Backup Copy Before Saving turned on, and set this value to '3', after three saves you would have your current document as filename.ctd, the earliest backup would be filename.ctd~, the second would be filename.ctd~~ and the last or most recent would be filename.ctd~~~.
     
Miscellaneous:
     
     Automatically Check for Newer Version: This option will tell Cherrytree to check it's website for a newer version and let you know if one exists, every time it's started. Naturally, this will depend on whether or not your computer has an Internet connection available when Cherrytree is started. Note however that this will only alert you to the fact the developer has released an updated version, you will still have to get the update from whatever source you choose, if they have made it available yet. You can go directly to the developers website and see if a binary package exits for your operating system from this link: http://www.giuspen.com/cherrytree/#downl or check with your operating system / package manager's repositories.
     
     Reload Document From Last Session: Cherrytree can automatically reload the last document you were working on when you exited the program.  Many people prefer this and will leave this enabled, but you can turn it off, and choose what file to work with whenever Cherrytree starts.
     
     Reload After External Update to CT* File: This option is turned on by default. It enables users to work in conjunction with environments such as an office where users pull files from a server, as well as cloud storage services like Dropbox. If you open a Cherrytree document on one computer, then open the same document on another computer and make a change to it while it's still open on the first computer, Cherrytree will detect this and replace the open file on the first computer with the latest one from the server, keeping you in sync.
     WARNING: This cannot be used, nor is it intended as a "true" collaboration tool. Two or more users cannot be working on the document at the same time or errors and lost data will occur. This option is meant to be used in situations where a single user may edit a Cherrytree document from more than one computer, NOT for two or more users to edit a document at the same time. An example of an acceptable situation would be working in an office editing a document, leaving Cherrytree and the document open and then logging in to the server or the cloud storage later from a laptop and editing the same document. The Cherrytree that's running at the office will update it's contents to reflect the changes made on the laptop.
     
Language

    This option allows the user to choose what default language the Cherrytree interface uses. This only affects the menus and tooltips, not the language of the text you enter. Most users will leave it at the operating system / desktop default, but if for some reason you'd rather use another language for Cherrytree different from your other programs, you can choose that language here. Cherrytree currently supports 9 different languages, hopefully this will be expanded in the future. More translators are needed and if you'd like to see your language supported, consider helping out. Go to http://www.giuspen.com/cherrytree to find out how.
     
     <-Previous /Home/ Next ->

